Headers:
Structure and contents

Paragraphs:
The bachelor programme offered by the Faculty of Informatics consists of an innovative, project-based, team-oriented curriculum of six semesters. In the first five semesters, students work on group projects. In the sixth semester, they work on an individual final project in which they use all their acquired knowledge to solve an interesting problem. The bachelor students have opportunities for summer internships both at companies and at the university. The bachelor programme emphasizes theoretical foundations, technology, and soft skills such as communication and teamwork.
Bachelor curriculum 2024-2027
* select 39 ECTS of electives
The Bachelor programme is characterized by an interdisciplinary approach and project-based learning. Interdisciplinary is assured by integrating basic informatics courses with courses in different application fields, such as computational sciences, economics, and communication sciences.
The foundation course introduces students to the theory and practice of informatics. Here they acquire the necessary notions and background knowledge likely to inspire their subsequent choice of specialisation.
The Bachelor programme introduces students to the theory and practice of Informatics. It emphasises theoretical foundations, technology, and soft skills such as communication and teamwork.
The curriculum is structured around four areas of learning essential for a truly interdisciplinary education:
The programme is entirely taught in English; no language certificates are required for admission.
Language courses at USI
USI offers courses in English, French, German and Italian free of charge for Bachelor/Master students, PhD students, and academic and administrative staff of all its Faculties.
Specific information is available at the links below:
The Faculty of Informatics encourages and promotes the talent of its Bachelor and Master students by offering them summer internships in academic research within the programme Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program - UROP.
Internships are extracurricular, and access is on a competitive basis. Students work one-on-one with an advisor to develop a deeper understanding of both the concepts taught during the semester and the research topic. Students considering continuing in academia should seriously consider applying for a UROP position.
All research opportunities for this year are listed here.
